Help file for the StrongEd S-Base mode.
27th February 2003

The S-Base directory and all its contents should be placed in either
!StrED_cfg.UserPrefs.Modes or in !StrongED.Defaults.Modes

The preferred place is in !StrED_cfg.UserPrefs.Modes

!S-Base contains a configuration option to use an external editor. If
this is enabled, and you are using StrongED as your editor, then the
text files created will be displayed in this S-Base mode.

Its main advantage is that it colours key words, functions, strings,
numbers and "remarks" so that they stand out. If you do not like the
default colours produced you can change these:

  Make sure you are in a text file which is being displayed in the
  S-Base mode

  Adjust click on the "tick" icon above (to bring up the mode choices
  dialogue), and then go to the Colours section. Do not Select click on
  this icon, as the dialogue created if you do will be the wrong one.

  Most of the colour options are self-explanatory, with the exception
  that key words are under Reserved Words 1, functions (@funcs) are
  under Reserved Words 2 and def, proc, and enddef are on their own
  under Reserved Words 3


The same choices dialogue will also let you set many other options , which are
worth exploring if you are not familiar with them.

The S-Base mode will also enable the following:

  Clicking on the "List of Found" icon (the one on the right in the
  button bar at the top of the window):

    with Select or Adjust produces a list of all "def proc" statements
    in the file.

    with Ctrl-Select or Ctrl-Adjust produces a list of all "print"
    statements in the file

    with Sh-Select or Sh-Adjust produces a list of all "suspend"
    statements in the file


  The following abbreviations will be automatically expanded:

    def. (note the full stop) expands to

      def proc

      enddef


    for. expands to

       for

       next


    case. expands to

       case
       when
       endcase

    repeat. expands to

       repeat

       until


    if. expands to

       if

       endif


    while expands to

       while

       endwhile


    |. expands to

      |<followed by a whole line of dashes>


    I have only indented the expansions here for clarity. The real
    expansions to not indent the constructions any further than the
    typed short-cuts.

    In each case the caret is placed after the first keyword ready for
    you to continue typing, and in most cases on pressing Return the
    caret is then placed on the next line, indented by two spaces. In
    the case of "case", it is placed after "when "

    You can add to the abbreviation expansions by scrolling down to the
    bottom of the S-Base mode file and adding further definitions after
    Shortcuts and before the following End statement.


Please let me know if you think of any enhancements to the S-Base mode,
as at present it is very basic and could definitely be improved.

I am slowly and not very regularly working on an S-Base StrongHelp
reference manual, but it is a very long job and has to wait its turn
with all the other bits of life which get in the way. When and if it
ever appears I will circulate it. If you would like a copy then please
let me know. The encouragement /might/ give me an incentive to get on
with it.

Robin Hampshire
robin@brushford.com